# ngff-rfc8-collection-examples

This repository contains example files for the [NGFF RFC 8: Collections](https://github.com/ome/ngff/pull/343)

## Example descriptions

- `plain/base_multiscale_collection.json`: A single collection node containing two multiscale images, one of which references the other as its source.
- `plain/nested_collections.json`: A simple nested collection structure with two levels of collections. The top-level collection contains a child collection, and a multiscale image. The child collection contains another multiscale image.
- `plain/external_collection/`: This is an example of a collection that references external collections. It contains three files:
  - `parent_collection.json`: The top-level collection that references a child collection.
  - `child_collection.json`: The child collection that contains a multiscale image.
  - `resolved_collection.json`: Equivalent collection structure with the child collection resolved (i.e. inlined) within the parent collection.
- `webknossos/inline_multiscale.json`: A collection with a 3 multiscale images (EM, segmentation, prediction) and a custom nodes.

## Generating the examples

Pydantic models and scripts to generate the example files are in the `src/ngff_rfc8_collection_examples` folder. You can run the scripts in the `scripts/` folder to generate example collections in Zarr format.
All examples can be generated by running:

```bash
pixi run gen_all
```

The current examples were generated are:
- `scripts/gen_single_scale/stand_alone_single_scale.zarr`: A stand-alone single scale image stored in a zarr array.
- `scripts/gen_multiscales/consolidated_multiscale.zarr`: A consolidated multiscale image with 3 single scale images.
- `scripts/gen_multiscales/distributed_multiscale.zarr`: A distributed multiscale where the single scale metadata images are stored in separate zarr 
- `scripts/gen_collections/basic_collection.zarr`: A basic collection containing two multiscale images (equivalent to `plain/base_multiscale_collection.json`).